# kickstarter-analysis
Performing Analysis on Kickstarter to Discover Trends
Ashwin Mohan 
Sunday May 17 2020
The outcomes based on goals chart shows that for theatre kickstarter projects,  the lower the goal amount the more likely the goal was to be funded. The funding rate for theatre projects with goals of less than 1,000 dollars was over 75%, while for projects that have goals of over 50,000 dollars had a funding rate of less than 17%. One serious limitation of the data is the lack of kickstarter projects for the higher dollar amounts , which can skew the results of the data. However the 5000 to 9999 dollars group also had a significantly lower funding rate than the under 1000 or 1000 to 5000 dollar group , at 55% vs more than 70% for the other two. All three of these groups had over 100 projects and this shows evidence for the clear negative relationship between the size of the goal and the likelihood of success, for theatre kickstarter projects. 
	Another interesting insight from the data was that the most common project donation size was between 1000 and 4999 dollars, and that this zone has an extremely similar success rate to the less than 1000 dollar zones ( 72.66% vs & 75.81) , and a much higher success rate than the  55.03% for projects between the 5000 and 9999 dollar range. There were 534 projects in the 1000 to 4999 dollar goals range, making it by far the most common range for a project's goal. The next most common range of under 1000 dollars only has 186 projects , and there are 169 between 5000 to 9999 dollars. This suggests that there is some expected value maximization on the part of the kickstarter project founders in the theatre sector , as the 1000 to 4999 dollar range for projects seems to offer an attractive mix of much more money than the under 1000 dollar range , while maintaining the high success rate , and avoiding the risk of a higher project goal such as those in the 5000 to 9999 dollar range. This also suggests that those who are starting these kickstarter projects have a familiarity with what ranges are most likely to get funded and try to make their budget goals work within that framework.
	It also came about in the data that the largest number of projects that are funded are started in quarter two , however this is also the time where the largest number of projects are overall started. This is interesting because it suggests something about the annual business cycle for theatre based kickstarter projects with more projects being started during the 2nd quarter and the number of projects dwindling towards the 4th quarter. More research will be needed to see if there is a possible reason for this, as the data does not give any clear indication of causality.
	
	
	



